docs: intro doc on ci (#16346)
microsoft/playwright: docs/src/ci-intro-js.md

---
id: ci-intro
title: "CI Github Actions"
---

> When installing Playwright you are given the option to add a GitHub actions. This creates a `playwright.yaml` file inside a `.github/workflows` containing everything you need so that your tests run on each push or pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When installing Playwright you are given the option to add a GitHub Actions. This creates a `playwright.yml` file inside a `.github/workflows` containing everything you need so that your tests run on each push into the main/master branch and pull request.
```

**What you will learn:**

> - [How to use GitHub actions to run your tests](#github-actions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [How to use GitHub Actions to run your tests](#github-actions)
```

- [How to download the Playwright Report from GitHub](#downloading-the-playwright-report)
- [How to view the Playwright Report](#viewing-the-playwright-report)
- [How to view the trace](#viewing-the-trace)

## GitHub Actions

Tests will run on push or pull request on branches main or master. The workflow will install all dependencies, install playwright and then run the tests. It will also create the playwright report.

```yaml
name: Playwright Tests
on:
  push:
    branches: [main, master]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main, master]
jobs:
  test:
    timeout-minutes: 60
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v2
        with:
          node-version: "14.x"
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm ci
      - name: Install Playwright Browsers
        run: npx playwright install --with-deps
      - name: Run Playwright tests
        run: npx playwright test
      - uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
        if: always()
        with:
          name: playwright-report
          path: playwright-report/
          retention-days: 30
```

### Create a Repo and Push to GitHub

> [Create a repo on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo) and create a new repository or push an existing repository. Follow the instructions on GitHub and don't forget to initialize a git repository using the `git init` command so you can push your code.

Reviewer: I feel like the linked guide teaches only half of that what's required. Maybe something from here fits? https://github.com/git-guides/git-push

<img width="861" alt="Create a Repo and Push to GitHub" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/183423254-d2735278-a2ab-4d63-bb99-48d8e5e447bc.png"/>

### Opening the Workflows

> Click on the **Actions** tab to see the workflows. Here you will see if your tests have passed or failed.

Reviewer: note: On the PR status check or when opening a commit works as well and is sometimes more convenient.

<img width="839" alt="Viewing Test Logs" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/183423783-58bf2008-514e-4f96-9c12-c9a55703960c.png"/>

## HTML Report

The HTML Reporter shows you a full report of your tests allowing you to filter the report by browsers, passed tests, failed tests, skipped tests and flaky tests.

### Downloading the Playwright Report

In the Artifacts section click on the **playwright-report** to download your report in the format of a zip file.

<img width="972" alt="Downloading the Playwright Report" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/183437023-524f1803-84e4-4862-9ce3-1d55af0e023e.png" />

### Viewing the Playwright Report

To view the Playwright Report you will need to extract the zip, preferably in a folder that already has Playwright installed otherwise you will have to install Playwright in the folder where you extracted the zip. Then use `npx playwright show-report` followed by the name of the extracted folder which by default is called `playwright-report`.

```bash	

> npx playwright show-report playwright-report

Reviewer: Very confusing!

```

<img width="752" alt="Viewing the Playwright Report" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/183437645-b47dd175-2e07-4ecc-a469-27d5b150b7ed.png" />

### Viewing the Trace

Click on the trace icon next to the test's file name to view the trace.

<img width="1909" alt="Deploying the Playwright Report to view the Trace" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13063165/183438037-01935200-f784-4c80-bbea-bcff8adae078.png" />

To learn more about running tests on CI check out our detailed guide on [Continuous Integration](/ci.md)

## What's Next

> - [Learn how to write Web First Assertions](/test-assertions.md)

Reviewer: Search through the code base if we use this wording somewhere else. It should be write ->use

Author: no, just typo, changed to use
